Top Recommendations:
Recommendation 1: When this came out, I was living with a roommate. He went out and saw it, came home and said, "Dude, you have to go see The Matrix." So we left and he sat through it a second time. This movie is splendidly done. The mystery about what the Matrix is, unravels and you see a dystopian future unlike any we as a race would want. I have watched this over and over and never tire of it. Everyone does a great job acting in this, the special effects are above par and the story is engaging.
Recommendation 2: The Matrix - 1999This was a real change in filmmaking. Like watching it again in 2020, i.e. after 21 years and it still feels fresh. Iconic scenes are still having benchmarks setting up.If we say it sci-fi at its best, it won't be wrong. The hype was real, it is still not easy to match the level of Matrix where we experience the connection of humans and science, that too with amazing action fight and chase scenes, not just normal scenes they were, multiple exposures, slow motion 3D moves, Oh My God, and it's understandable as well like what are the characters up to and what storyline they are entering into. The script was very well written and executed otherwise it could have been a mess. A special appreciation in managing the theme with those black color costumes and a scientific zone with unimaginable equipment and props doing unbelievable things in the two worlds created. No spoilers, but the action scenes in the climax where the protagonist goes to save someone from agents are really breathtaking. The technology used at its best.A salute to Wachowski Brothers and the team for creating this masterpiece. It will be a great competition and motivation as well for many films coming in the future.
Recommendation 3: This film doesn't age, it will be contemporary even in 2030 or 2040.
Wachowski's best one, by far.
Recommendation 4: I have an interesting history and relationship with this film. Never before has a film made me question the nature of reality before. At first glance, The Matrix at the surface might have looked like a really good action movie with some cutting edge special effects with a kinetic and engaging story, and it definitely has that, but on my first viewing of this movie back in 2006 when I was 9 years old and slid this DVD into my small box TV at the end of my bed. I had absolutely no idea what I was in for and what I was about to experience.This movie is actually more disturbing and honestly terrifying than many would let on, especially to a young child when this movie drops some major psychological and philosophical themes in it's first act. The first 40 minutes of The Matrix is frankly terrifying and suspenseful in all the best and right ways.The surreal bugging scene with that crazy bug with the long tendrils swirling around in what looks like a higher frame rate than the rest of the shot around it, followed by the mirror scream and the metallic drowning scream followed by the waking up in the pod of human entrails scene, followed by the highly messed up "How do you define 'real'" Where the concept of reality literally goes up in quotation marks and flies away, where the movie sets the tone that 'reality is simply electrical signals interpreted by your brain' is the most we humans can make of our surroundings - almost makes the concept of The Matrix scarily plausible - and also in a way kind of timely of how the Internet has evolved leaps and bounds since 1999 and the plausibility of VR at the moment (I mean have you seen Half-Life Alyx)And of course you have the explanation of the matrix that follows. Truly one of the heaviest exposition scenes in cinema history.And that's about as far as I survived my first viewing of this movie all those years ago. As a kid's first viewing, this movie successfully found it's way inside my head and left my mind shattered literally unable to watch any more. You would think that would be a terrible thing to say about a movie, but not here. The Matrix is an unparalleled and unprecedented movie experience as humanity is at the core of this movie.The first act plays as a setup for such a hopeless notion as the nature of the matrix is revealed, only to have this notion flipped on it's head when the matrix itself starts being a fun place to be in the eyes of Neo and the evolution of his character aswell as the rebels that he meets that teach him of the humanity that underlies every person trapped inside it under the oppression of the inhuman controllers.Once the true nature of the matrix is revealed. You can bend it to your will and then you can do whatever you want. The Matrix is the ultimate story and parable of humanity overcoming and opressive and dystopian scenario, being controlled by machines, and is masterful in it's writing and direction. The casting was very well thought out with Keanu Reeves killing it as Neo, aswell as Laurence Fishburne and Carrie Anne-Moss as great supporting roles, with Hugo Weaving as an extremley strong Sci-Fi villan as the cold, sociopathic AI Villan Agent Smith.With Neo as the embodiment of humanity against Smith which is devoid of such, follows an unforgettable experience of human over machine. A classic and terrifyingly brilliant film which may cause you to have an internal existential crisis, but that's just the power of this film.
Recommendation 5: ** May contain spoilers **There aren't many movies I watched in the theatre twice – let alone on the same day - but immediately after the credits had rolled (and still pumped up by 'Rage against the Machine'), I queued up for the next screening of 'The Matrix'. I was so blown away by that film, I feared - and probably rightly so - that I hadn't caught every detail of what I'd just seen. I later found out that many of my friends had had a similar reaction to the film, and I know virtually no one who liked the film and didn't watch it at least twice. It's simply one of those rare films that are so rich you just have to watch them several times.In structure, style and concept, 'The Matrix' was ground-breaking; it marked the first time the visual style of Manga comic books and Anime such as 'Akira' or 'Ghost in the Shell' had been successfully translated to a live-action film. Apart from 'Blade Runner', which has a totally different mood and pace (but is also a masterpiece and visionary film-making), there simply hadn't been anything even remotely like it. The jaw-dropping action sequences have such a raw, gripping energy they feel like an adrenalin overdose, but unlike most action films, they never overshadow the story; on the contrary - they enhance it and make complete sense within that universe.As for the story itself, I think this is one of the most original, fascinating Sci-Fi tales you'll likely ever see on screen. Clearly inspired by Japanese Anime and Manga yet also by authors like Isaac Asimov or Philip K. Dick, the story about humanity's war against its own creation, machines of an artificial intelligence that have evolved to the point where they have become the dominant 'species' and vastly superior to their creators, could take place in the same world as 'Blade Runner' or 'The Terminator' - albeit several hundred years later. But there is also a mythical, even religious undercurrent to the story; the themes of a prophecy, a "liberator" or even a "messiah" make 'The Matrix' transcend the Science-Fiction genre and become even more unique.'The Matrix' was a watershed moment in filmmaking – in every respect – and even though two inferior sequels have left a bit of a stain on the film, they can't distract from what an uncompromising and hugely influential masterpiece this is. Sci-Fi movies that were released after 'The Matrix' have tried very hard to achieve a similar look and tone, but the original still owns them all. 10 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
